Peer deployment guide (#1803)
hyperledger/fabric: docs/source/deploypeer/peerchecklist.md

This checklist covers key configuration parameters for setting up a production network. Of course, you can always refer to the core.yaml file for additional parameters or more information. It also provides guidance on which parameters should be overridden. The list of parameters that you need to understand and that are described in this topic include:

- [peer.id](#peerid)
- [peer.networkId](#peernetworkid)
- [peer.listenAddress](#peerlistenaddress)
- [peer.chaincodeListenAddress](#peerchaincodelistenaddress)
- [peer.chaincodeAddress](#peerchaincodeaddress)
- [peer.address](#peeraddress)
- [peer.mspConfigPath](#peermspconfigpath)
- [peer.localMspId](#peerlocalmspid)
- [peer.fileSystemPath](#peerfilesystempath)

> - [peer.gossip.x](#peergossipx)

Reviewer: Not sure if the 'x' was meant to be a wildcard * ?  If you want to indicate categories of properties versus individual properties, I would use `.*`

```suggestion
- [peer.gossip.*](#peergossipx)
```

> - [tls](#tls)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [peer.tls.*](#tls)
```

> - [bccsp](#bccsp)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [peer.bccsp.*](#bccsp)
```

> - [externalBuilders](#externalBuilders)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [chaincode.externalBuilders.*](#externalBuilders)
```

> - [ledger](#ledger)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [ledger.*](#ledger)
```

> - [operations](#operations)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [operations.*](#operations)
```

> - [metrics](#metrics)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [metrics.*](#metrics)
```

# is set to true
key:
    file: tls/server.key
# Trusted root certificate chain for tls.cert
rootcert:
    file: tls/ca.crt
# Set of root certificate authorities used to verify client certificates
clientRootCAs:
    files:
      - tls/ca.crt
```

Configure this section to enable TLS communications for the peer. After TLS is enabled, all nodes that transact with the peer will also need to enable TLS. Review the topic on [Registering and enrolling identities with a CA](https://hyperledger-fabric-ca.readthedocs.io/en/release-1.4/deployguide/use_CA.html) for instructions on how to generate the peer TLS certificates.

- **`enabled`:** (Default value should be overridden.) To ensure your production environment is secure, TLS should be enabled for all communications between nodes by setting `enabled: true` in the `tls` section of the config file. While this field is disabled by default, which may be acceptable for a test network, it should to be enabled when in production. This setting will configure **server-side TLS**, meaning that TLS will guarantee the identity of the _server_ to the client and provides a two-way encrypted channel between them.

> - **`cert.file`:** (Default value should be overridden.) Every peer needs to register and enroll with its TLS CA before it can transact securely with other nodes in the organization. Therefore, before you can deploy a peer, you must first register a user for the peer and enroll the peer identity with the TLS CA to generate the peer's TLS signed certificate. If you are using the recommended folder structure from the [Registering and enrolling identities with a CA](https://hyperledger-fabric-ca.readthedocs.io/en/release-1.4/deployguide/use_CA.html) topic, this file needs to be copied into `config/organizations/peerOrganizations/org1.example.com/peers/peer0.org1.example.com/tls`

Reviewer: config/organizations/peerOrganizations/org1.example.com/peers/peer0.org1.example.com/tls is for test network only.

> - **`key.file`:** (Default value should be overridden.) Similar to the `cert.file`, provide the name and location of the generated TLS private key for this peer, for example, `/msp/keystore/87bf5eff47d33b13d7aee81032b0e8e1e0ffc7a6571400493a7c_sk`. If you are using the recommended folder structure from the [Registering and enrolling identities with a CA](https://hyperledger-fabric-ca.readthedocs.io/en/release-1.4/deployguide/use_CA.html) topic, this file needs to be copied into `config/organizations/peerOrganizations/org1.example.com/peers/peer0.org1.example.com/tls`.  If you are using an [HSM](#bccsp) to store the private key for the peer, this field will be blank.

Reviewer: config/organizations/peerOrganizations/org1.example.com/peers/peer0.org1.example.com/tls is for test network only.

> - **`rootcert.file`:**  (Default value should be overridden.) This value contains the name and location of the peer organization CA root certificate. If you are using the recommended folder structure from the [Registering and enrolling identities with a CA](https://hyperledger-fabric-ca.readthedocs.io/en/release-1.4/deployguide/use_CA.html) topic, this file needs to be copied into `config/organizations/peerOrganizations/org1.example.com/peers/peer0.org1.example.com/tls`.

Reviewer: config/organizations/peerOrganizations/org1.example.com/peers/peer0.org1.example.com/tls is for test network only.

#  Checklist for a production peer

> As you prepare to build a production peer, you need to customize the configuration by editing the [core.yaml](https://github.com/hyperledger/fabric/blob/{BRANCH}/sampleconfig/core.yaml) file, also visible inside the peer binary `\config` folder. Ideally, peer configuration happens before the peer is started.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As you prepare to build a production peer, you need to customize the configuration by editing the [core.yaml](https://github.com/hyperledger/fabric/blob/{BRANCH}/sampleconfig/core.yaml) file, which is copied into the `/config` directory when downloading the Fabric binaries, and available within the Fabric peer image at /etc/hyperledger/fabric/core.yaml.
```

While in a production environment you could override the environment variables in the `core.yaml` file in your Docker container or your Kubernetes job, these instructions show how to edit `core.yaml` instead. It’s important to understand the parameters in the configuration file and their dependancies on other parameter settings in the file. Blindly overriding one setting using an environment variable could affect the functionality of another setting. Therefore, the recommendation is that before starting the peer, you make the modifications to the settings in the configuration file to become familiar with the available settings and how they work. Afterwards, you may choose to override these parameters using environment variables.

> This checklist covers key configuration parameters for setting up a production network. Of course, you can always refer to the `core.yaml` file for additional parameters or more information. The list of parameters that you need to understand and that are described in this topic include:

Reviewer 2: This checklist covers key configuration parameters for setting up a production network. Of course, you can always refer to the `core.yaml` file for additional parameters or more information. It also provides guidance on which parameters should be overridden. The list of parameters that you need to understand and that are described in this topic include:

> - [id](#id)

Reviewer: For all properties, I would include the full yaml path everywhere it is mentioned, e.g. this one is `peer.id`.  It is especially important so that people overriding with env variables know what the property is, e.g. this one would become CORE_PEER_ID.

- [networkId](#networkid)
- [listenAddress](#listenaddress)
- [chaincodeListenAddress](#chaincodelistenaddress)
- [chaincodeAddress](#chaincodeaddress)
- [address](#address)
- [mspConfigPath](#mspconfigpath)
- [localMspId](#localmspid)
- [fileSystemPath](#filesystempath)

> - [gossip](#gossip)

Reviewer: From `gossip` and below, these are groups of properties not a single property, so you may want to indicate that as e.g. `peer.gossip.*`.

- [tls](#tls)
- [bccsp](#bccsp)
- [externalBuilders](#externalBuilders)
- [ledger](#ledger)
- [operations](#operations)
- [metrics](#metrics)

## id

```
# The peer id provides a name for this peer instance and is used when
# naming docker resources.
id: jdoe
```

> - **`id`**: (Default value should be overridden.) Start by giving your peer an ID (which is analogous to giving it a name). Often the name indicates the organization that the peer belongs to, for example `peer0.org1.example.com`. The `peer.id` parameter is the name used by service discovery and peer gossip to address the peer. It is used for naming this peer, associated chaincode images, and peer containers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **`id`**: (Default value should be overridden.) Start by giving your peer an ID (which is analogous to giving it a name). Often the name indicates the organization that the peer belongs to, for example `peer0.org1.example.com`. It is used for naming the peer's chaincode images and containers.
```

## networkId

```
# The networkId allows for logical separation of networks and is used when
# naming docker resources.
networkId: dev
```

> - **`networkId`**: (Default value should be overridden.) Specify any name that you want. One recommendation would be to differentiate the network by naming it based on its planned usage (for example, “dev”, “staging”, “test”, ”production”, etc). This value is also used to build the name of the chaincode images and peer containers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **`networkId`**: (Default value should be overridden.) Specify any name that you want. One recommendation would be to differentiate the network by naming it based on its planned usage (for example, “dev”, “staging”, “test”, ”production”, etc). This value is also used to build the name of the chaincode images and containers.
```

## listenAddress

```
# The Address at local network interface this Peer will listen on.
# By default, it will listen on all network interfaces
listenAddress: 0.0.0.0:7051
```

> - **`listenAddress`**: (Default value should be overridden.) Specify the address that the peer will listen on, for example, `127.0.0.1:7051`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **`listenAddress`**: (Default value should be overridden.) Specify the address that the peer will listen on, for example, `0.0.0.0:7051`.
```

## chaincodeListenAddress

```
# The endpoint this peer uses to listen for inbound chaincode connections.
# If this is commented-out, the listen address is selected to be
# the peer's address (see below) with port 7052
chaincodeListenAddress: 0.0.0.0:7052
```

> - **`chaincodeListenAddress`**: (Default value should be overridden.) Uncomment this parameter and specify the address where this peer listens for chaincode requests. It needs to be different than the `peer.listenAddress`, for example, `127.0.0.1:7052`. This is the network-addressable name that other peers should use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **`chaincodeListenAddress`**: (Default value should be overridden.) Uncomment this parameter and specify the address where this peer listens for chaincode requests. It needs to be different than the `peer.listenAddress`, for example, `0.0.0.0:7052`.
```

# to match the name of one of the MSPs in each of the channel
# that this peer is a member of. Otherwise this peer's messages
# will not be identified as valid by other nodes.
localMspId: SampleOrg
```

- **`localMspId`**: (Default value should be overridden.) This is the value of the MSP ID of the organization the peer belongs to. Because peers can only be joined to a channel if the organization the peer belongs to is a channel member, this MSP ID must match the name of at least one of the MSPs in each of the channels that this peer is a member of.

## fileSystemPath
```
# Path on the file system where peer will store data (eg ledger). This
# location must be access control protected to prevent unintended
# modification that might corrupt the peer operations.
fileSystemPath: /var/hyperledger/production
```
- **`fileSystemPath`**: (Default value should be overridden.) This is the path to the ledger and installed chaincodes on the local filesystem of the peer. It can be an absolute path or relative to FABRIC_CFG_PATH. It defaults to `/var/hyperledger/production`. The user running the peer needs to own and have write access to this directory.

## gossip

```

> gossip:

Reviewer: I like how you pulled out the important gossip properties and list them all together.

        # default value is true, i.e. state transfer is active
        # and takes care to sync up missing blocks allowing
        # lagging peer to catch up to speed with rest network
        enabled: false

    pvtData:
      implicitCollectionDisseminationPolicy:
          # requiredPeerCount defines the minimum number of eligible peers to which the peer must successfully
          # disseminate private data for its own implicit collection during endorsement. Default value is 0.
          requiredPeerCount: 0

          # maxPeerCount defines the maximum number of eligible peers to which the peer will attempt to
          # disseminate private data for its own implicit collection during endorsement. Default value is 1.
          maxPeerCount: 1
```

Peers leverage the Gossip data dissemination protocol to broadcast ledger and channel data in a scalable fashion. Gossip messaging is continuous, and each peer on a channel is constantly receiving current and consistent ledger data from multiple peers. While there are many Gossip parameters that can be customized, there are three groups of settings you need to pay attention to at a minimum:

> * **Endpoints** Gossip is required for block dissemination (not recommended other than for private data transactions) and service discovery (recommended). To use any of these features, you must configure the gossip `bootstrap`, `endpoint`, and `externalEndpoint` parameters in addition to **setting at least one anchor peer** in the peer’s channel configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Endpoints** Gossip is required for service discovery and private data dissemination. To use these features, you must configure the gossip `bootstrap`, `endpoint`, and `externalEndpoint` parameters in addition to **setting at least one anchor peer** in the peer’s channel configuration.
```

  - **`bootstrap`**: (Default value should be overridden.) Provide the list of other peer [addresses](#address) in this organization to discover.

  - **`endpoint`**: (Default value should be overridden.) Specify the address that other peers _in this organization_ should use to connect to this peer. For example, `peer0.org1.example.com:7051`.

  - **`externalEndpoint:`** (Default value should be overridden.) Specify the address that peers in _other organizations_ should use to connect to this peer, for example, `peer0.org1.example.com:7051`.

> * **Block dissemination** As of Fabric v2.2, in order to reduce network traffic, it is recommended that peers get their blocks from non-private data transactions from the ordering service instead of from other peers in their organization. The combination of the `useLeaderElection:`, `orgLeader:`, and `state.enabled` parameters in this section control this behavior.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Block dissemination**  In order to reduce network traffic, it is recommended that peers get their blocks from the ordering service instead of from other peers in their organization (the default configuration starting in Fabric v2.2). The combination of the `useLeaderElection:`, `orgLeader:`, and `state.enabled` parameters in this section ensures that peers will pull blocks from the ordering service.
```

  - **`orgLeader:`** (Defaults to `true` as of v2.2, which is recommended so that peers get blocks from ordering service.) Set this value to `false` if you want to use Gossip for block dissemination among peers in the organization.

  - **`state.enabled:`** (Defaults to `false` as of v2.2 which is recommended so that peers get blocks from ordering service.) Set this value to `true` when you want to use Gossip to sync up missing blocks, which allows a lagging peer to catch up with other peers on the network.

* **Implicit data** Fabric v2.0 introduced the concept of private data implicit collections on a peer. If you’d like to utilize per-organization private data patterns, you don’t need to define any collections when deploying chaincode in Fabric v2.x. Implicit organization-specific collections can be used without any upfront definition. When you plan to take advantage of this new feature, you need to configure the values of the `pvtData.implicitCollectionDisseminationPolicy.requiredPeerCount` and `pvtData.implicitCollectionDisseminationPolicy.maxPeerCount`. For more details, review the [Private data tutorial](../private_data_tutorial.html).

>   - **`pvtData.implicitCollectionDisseminationPolicy.requiredPeerCount`:** (Recommended that you override this value when using private data implicit collections.) **New in Fabric 2.0.** It defaults to 0, but you will need to increase it based on the number of peers belonging to your organization. The value represents the maximum number of peers within your own organization that the data must be disseminated to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - **`pvtData.implicitCollectionDisseminationPolicy.requiredPeerCount`:** (Recommended that you override this value when using private data implicit collections.) **New in Fabric 2.0.** It defaults to 0, but you will need to increase it based on the number of peers belonging to your organization. The value represents the required number of peers within your own organization that the data must be disseminated to, to ensure data redundancy in case a peer goes down after it endorses a transaction.
```

>   - **`pvtData.implicitCollectionDisseminationPolicy.maxPeerCount`:** (Recommended that you override this value when using private data implicit collections.) **New in Fabric 2.0.** This is an organization-specific collection setting that is used to ensure the private data is disseminated elsewhere in case this peer endorses a request and then goes down for some reason. The default is set to `1` but in a production environment with `n` peers in an organization, the recommended setting is `n-1`.

Reviewer: " This is an organization-specific collection setting that is used to ensure the private data is disseminated elsewhere in case this peer endorses a request and then goes down for some reason."
is true for both this one and the previous one.
The difference is, requiredPeerCount must be satisfied for endorsement to be successful, while maxPeerCount is the number of peers to attempt to dissemintate to best effort.

    # CouchDB - store state database in CouchDB
    stateDatabase: goleveldb

    couchDBConfig:
       # It is recommended to run CouchDB on the same server as the peer, and
       # not map the CouchDB container port to a server port in docker-compose.
       # Otherwise proper security must be provided on the connection between
       # CouchDB client (on the peer) and server.
       couchDBAddress: 127.0.0.1:5984

       # This username must have read and write authority on CouchDB
       username:

       # The password is recommended to pass as an environment variable
       # during start up (eg CORE_LEDGER_STATE_COUCHDBCONFIG_PASSWORD).
       # If it is stored here, the file must be access control protected
       # to prevent unintended users from discovering the password.
       password:

       # CacheSize denotes the maximum mega bytes (MB) to be allocated for the in-memory state
       # cache. Note that CacheSize needs to be a multiple of 32 MB. If it is not a multiple
       # of 32 MB, the peer would round the size to the next multiple of 32 MB.
       # To disable the cache, 0 MB needs to be assigned to the cacheSize.

>        cacheSize: 64

Reviewer: Remove cacheSize from the list of important properties.

```

> This section is used to select your ledger database type, either `goleveldb` `CouchDB`. To avoid errors all peers should use the same database **type**.  CouchDB is an appropriate choice when ledger states are structured as JSON documents because CouchDB supports rich queries and update of richer data types often found in business transactions. While CouchDB runs in a separate operating system process, there is still a 1:1 relation between a peer node and a CouchDB instance, meaning that each peer will have a single database and that database will only be associated with that peer. The choice of the database is invisible to a smart contract.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section is used to select your ledger database type, either `goleveldb` `CouchDB`. To avoid errors all peers should use the same database **type**.  CouchDB is an appropriate choice when JSON queries are required. While CouchDB runs in a separate operating system process, there is still a 1:1 relation between a peer node and a CouchDB instance, meaning that each peer will have a single database and that database will only be associated with that peer. Besides the additional JSON query capability of CouchDB, the choice of the database is invisible to a smart contract.
```

> - **`ledger.state.stateDatabase:`** (Override this value when you plan to use CouchDB.) Defaults to goleveldb which is appropriate when ledger states are simple key-value pairs. A LevelDB database is co-located with the peer node – it is embedded within the same operating system process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **`ledger.state.stateDatabase:`** (Override this value when you plan to use CouchDB.) Defaults to goleveldb which is appropriate when ledger states are simple key-value pairs. A LevelDB database is embedded in the peer node process.
```

- **`ledger.state.couchDBConfig.couchDBAddress:`** (Required when using CouchDB.) Specify the address and port where CouchDB is running.

- **`ledger.state.couchDBConfig.username:`** (Required when using CouchDB.) Specify the CouchDB user with read and write authority to the database.

> - **`ledger.state.couchDBConfig.password:`** (Required when using CouchDB.) Best practice is to specify an environment variable that represents the password for the CouchDB user with read and write authority to the database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **`ledger.state.couchDBConfig.password:`** (Required when using CouchDB.) Specify the password for the CouchDB user with read and write authority to the database.
```

> - **`ledger.state.couchDBConfig.cacheSize:`** (Recommended to override) **New in Fabric 2.0.** When using CouchDB as the state database, read delays during endorsement and validation phases have historically been a performance bottleneck. In Fabric v2.0, a new peer cache replaces many of these expensive lookups with fast local cache reads. The cache size can be configured by using this parameter.

Reviewer: Remove cacheSize, most deployments will not need to tune it.

        # most operations service endpoints require client authentication when TLS
        # is enabled. clientAuthRequired requires client certificate authentication
        # at the TLS layer to access all resources.
        clientAuthRequired: false

        # paths to PEM encoded ca certificates to trust for client authentication
        clientRootCAs:
            files: []
```

The operations service is used for monitoring the health of the peer and relies on mutual TLS to secure its communication. Therefore, you need to set `operations.tls.clientAuthRequired` to `true`. When this parameter is set to `true`, clients attempting to ascertain the health of the node are required to provide a valid certificate for authentication. If the client does not provide a certificate or the service cannot verify the client’s certificate, the request is rejected. This means that the clients will need to register with the peer's TLS CA and provide their TLS signing certificate on the requests. See [The Operations Service](../operations_service.html) to learn more.

If you plan to use Prometheus [metrics](#metrics) to monitor your peer, you must configure the operations service here.

> In the unlikely case where two peers are running on the same node, you need to modify the `listenAddress`: for the second peer to use a different port. Otherwise, when you start the second peer, it will fail to start, reporting that the bind address is already in use.

Reviewer: This applies to all the addresses above.

- **`operations.tls.clientRootCAs.files*:`** (Required when using the operations service). Similar to the [peer.tls.clientRootCAs.files](#tls), it contains a list of client root CA certificates that can be used to verify client certificates. If the client enrolled with the peer organization CA, then this value is the peer organization root CA cert.

## metrics

```
metrics:
    # metrics provider is one of statsd, prometheus, or disabled
    provider: disabled
    # statsd configuration
    statsd:
        # network type: tcp or udp
        network: udp

        # statsd server address
        address: 127.0.0.1:8125
```
By default this is disabled, but if you want to monitor the metrics for the peer, you need to choose either `statsd` or `Prometheus` as your metric provider. `Statsd` uses a "push" model, pushing metrics from the peer to a `statsd` endpoint. Because of this, it does not require configuration of the operations service itself. See the list of [Available metrics for the peer](../metrics_reference.html#peer-metrics).

> - **`provider`:** (Required to use `statsd` or `Prometheus` metrics for the peer.) Because Prometheus utilizes a "pull" model there is not any configuration required from the Fabric CA server side. Rather, Prometheus will sends requests to the operations URL to poll for available metrics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **`provider`:** (Required to use `statsd` or `Prometheus` metrics for the peer.) Because Prometheus utilizes a "pull" model there is not any configuration required, beyond making the operations service available. Rather, Prometheus will send requests to the operations URL to poll for available metrics.
```

> - **`address:`** (Required when using `statsd`.) When `statsd` is enabled, you will need to configure the hostname and port of the server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **`address:`** (Required when using `statsd`.) When `statsd` is enabled, you will need to configure the hostname and port of the statsd server so that the peer can push metric updates.
```
